In this section we're going to be primarily looking at apps and user location.
These are obviously two features that are immensely powerful with mobile apps and allow you to give
information and services to your users specific to where they are.
We're going to start by showing you how to include maps in your applications which is actually pretty
straightforward.
So I'm going to create a new project which will be a Google Maps demo.
You might notice some slight differences here.
I'm using Android studio 2.2 now.
So if you're still on Vashion 2.1 I'd recommend upgrading over at the Android studio download page.
Then when you're all up and running create your new project.
Now some of the features that we're going to use here are specific to marshmallow devices and above
so I would recommend selecting that API level to Android 6 and then click next and then select the Google
Maps activity.
This will create a Google Maps activity for us which will have most of the settings that we need up
and running for US going into undersea 2.2 looks a little bit different to what we had before.
It's a little bit cleaner I think.
But the good news is the vast majority of what we use is in exactly the same place.
So you should have no problems at all.
Transitioning from 2.1 to 2.2.
All right so here we go.
So now we've got our project.
And when we open a Google Maps activity we get given a Google Maps API or SML file which has instructions
for creating a Google Maps API key.
So it's fairly straightforward.
Select that big long you are ill and then jump over to your browser and paste that in there you'll need
a Google account to do that.
So if you don't have one it will prompt you to sign up.
So just put in your details and create a Google account and then when you're logged in you'll be given
the option to create an API key.
And here we go.
So I'm going to create a new project so I leave that as the default and click continue.
And this will then create the project for you and enable you to get your Google Maps API key.
And there we go.
That's been enabled so we now just need to get our key to click go to credentials.
And then you'll get the option to create an android API key.
So I put in a name whatever you like really are going to put Google Maps
API key and if you want to you can restrict your IP to work for one specific app.
This is a good idea if you're releasing that app on the App Store.
But I'm actually going to get rid of it so that I can use this API key more generally.
It's completely up to you which one you'd like today.
So just click Create when you're done and then you'll get your API key.
Super.
So click copy and that will copy it to the clipboard and then will head back over to Android studio
and we just need to paste that into it says your key here will delete that and pasted in it.
So now we want to run an app.
But if you remember the device that I created Android lollipop or API 22 is the SDK.
So we're going to need to create a new virtual device running marshmallow.
I'm going to try the next house for this one.
Click next and then this time as you can see we've got the option to download a marshmallow release
where the Google API is absolutely crucial that whichever one you pick is at least marshmallow and has
Google API is included within it.
So make sure you choose one of those.
You can choose Android in Android nuggets release if you prefer.
That's absolutely fine but do make sure you pick one with the Google API.
Otherwise Google Maps will not work.
Then you might need to wait a little while for that to download and install.
If you haven't already installed that SDK and here we go.
So that's now done.
So I click Finish and we can now select that option.
Click next.
I'll leave all of those as the default and then finish
that then creates the HVD Android virtual device and allow us to run a wrap on it.
So just click OK.
So if we want to use Instant run we need to install the Android 6 I think we do say let's install it.
And continue while that's setting itself up.
And then we get it that's now installed.
So we're just waiting for
the next for the actual device to run.
And here we go.
So here's a device running our Google Maps and we can do all the usual things scroll around.
Click on this default markup.
We'll see how that was created in a moment.
And we can even zoom in and out on the Google map using command or control on Windows and shift together
and then dragging imitate pinched does seem to zoom in and out
excellent.
So that's how you add a Google map to your app.
Let's have a quick look and see what the code is actually doing here to make this happen.
So first off we've got the Java within our maps activity so you can see this is fairly similar to what
we're used to.
We've got the usual package in importing the classes etc. cetera that you've got quite a few extra ones
this time but this time we've got a map activity which is extending a Franklin activity which is implementing
on map ready Colback so that fragment activity is just a generic activity type that allows us to create
any sort of activity in this case maps 1 and the on map ready callback allows us to do something when
the map is ready if we want to see maybe display a route on the map or zoom to that location.
So then we've got a variable of type Google map called Map which we can use to refer to the map itself.
And you can see we've got a couple of lines of set up code here.
Which really just creates a map fragment which finds the map itself on the layout which will look at
in a moment and then they met fragments gets the map and that async that is short for asynchronous which
means that it will get the map essentially in the background and we can run other code while it's getting
the map if we want to.
So that creates the map for us.
Now this is the code that decides where the map is centered so you can see this is called on that map
ready.
So when the map is right it's essentially a callback function which is called When the map is ready.
And then we're creating a new pair of coordinates.
Essentially a lot less than a latitude and longitude of minus 34 and 1 5 1 which I believe is the location
of Sydney and then we're adding a marker on the map at that position with a certain title marker in
Sydney and then we're moving the camera i.e. the view of the map to that location.
So that's what took us to create this marker and centering it in the map screen.
So that's all the code that we need to actually run our app.
Let's have a quick look at the maps activity SML file.
There's not a great deal to look at.
We've got our map and then we've got a fragment.
This by the way might be the first view that you've seen of the new preview for maps.
It's very similar to what we had before except we've got the componentry at the bottom left and properties
on the right there.
We've still got all which is that we're used to layouts and we can also switch to the text view whenever
we need so you can say all we've got here is a simple fragment which has a width and height of it's
parents and contains a Google map.
That's as far as we're going to go in this area.
And then video will see how to customize our maps.
So to use specific locations and zoom levels to start with and adding and customizing markers as well.
We'll do that in the next video.